---
layout: post
title: Sweet blog template
date: 2016-04-18 13:25:59
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
description: Research ethics

author: Tiara
---

some notes about ethics dilemas

# Research Ethics  

Conducting ethical practices is extremely important throughout any research project. There are three objectives in research ethics, 
a) to protect human and animal subjects, and the environment, b) to ensure that research is conducted in a way that serves interests 
of individuals, groups and/or society as a whole and c) to examine specific research activities and projects for their ethical 
soundness, looking at issues such as the management of risk, protection of confidentiality and the process of personal informed consent.
(Anon., 2016)

Research ethics is a term coined to describe research into proper ethical practices to achieve a goal or objective (Walton, 2010) . 
Oskar Blakstad (Nov 23, 2008) describes a step-by-step approach for conducting ethical research. “The first thing to do before 
designing a study is to consider the potential cost and benefits of the research.” This may be problematic, especially when topics like
human privacy are called into the research light. Blakstad goes onto to explain that by thinking through ethical dilemmas, and at the 
same time, managing to fulfill necessary experimental research means more reliable experimental results and respected scientific 
reliability. The next step is to manage the social and political implications for conducting experimentation as well as what the results
or experimental process implies. Thirdly, understanding the ethics around maintaining partner’s confidence in resources, funding and 
time framing all are necessary for conducting ethical scientific practices.

Special note to the storage and treatment of participant personal information is extremely important and requires a careful ethic 
application. In most cases, the information is stored within a secure location such as an office work space or within an academic 
library between 5-10 years (depending on the significance of the research findings). Recording the ethical dilemmas faced during 
research and academic work to colleagues and supervisors as well as in within the documentation itself extremely important says George 
Mason University psychologist June Tangney, PhD.
